<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-AU">
	<head>
		<title>An Echo from the Old Bark School</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="an-echo-from-the-old-bark-school" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Echo from the Old Bark School</h2>
			<p>It was the first Monday after the holidays. The children had taken their seats in the Old Bark School, and the master called out the roll as usual:⁠—</p>
			<p>“Arvie Aspinall.” … “ ’Es, sir.”</p>
			<p>“David Cooper.” … “Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“John Heegard.” … “Yezzer.”</p>
			<p>“Joseph Swallow.” … “Yesser.”</p>
			<p>“James Bullock.” … “Present.”</p>
			<p>“Frederick Swallow.” … “Y’sir.”</p>
			<p>“James Nowlett.” … (Chorus of “Absent.”)</p>
			<p>“William Atkins.” … (Chorus of “Absent.”)</p>
			<p>“Daniel Lyons.” … “Perresent, sor-r-r.”</p>
			<p>Dan was a young immigrant, just out from the sod, and rolled his <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">r</i>’s like a cock-dove. His brogue was rich enough to make an Irishman laugh.</p>
			<p>Bill was “wagging it.” His own especial chum was of the opinion that Bill was sick. The master’s opinion did not coincide, so he penned a note to William’s parents, to be delivered by the model boy of the school.</p>
			<p>“Bertha Lambert.” … “Yes, ‘air.”</p>
			<p>“May Carey.” … “Pesin’, sair.”</p>
			<p>“Rose Cooper.” … “Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Janet Wild.” … “Y-y-yes, s-sir.”</p>
			<p>“Mary Wild.” …</p>
			<p>A solemn hush fell upon the school, and presently Janet Wild threw her arms out on the desk before her, let her face fall on them, and sobbed heart-brokenly. The master saw his mistake too late; he gave his head a little half-affirmative, half-negative movement, in that pathetic old way of his; rested his head on one hand, gazed sadly at the name, and sighed.</p>
			<p>But the galoot of the school spoilt the pathos of it all, for, during the awed silence which followed the calling of the girl’s name, he suddenly brightened up⁠—the first time he was ever observed to do so during school hours⁠—and said, briskly and cheerfully “Dead⁠—sir!”</p>
			<p>He hadn’t been able to answer a question correctly for several days.</p>
			<p>“Children,” said the master gravely and sadly, “children, this is the first time I ever had to put ‘D’ to the name of one of my scholars. Poor Mary! she was one of my first pupils⁠—came the first morning the school was opened. Children, I want you to be a little quieter today during play-hour, out of respect for the name of your dead schoolmate whom it has pleased the Almighty to take in her youth.”</p>
			<p>“Please, sir,” asked the galoot, evidently encouraged by his fancied success, “please, sir, what does ‘D’ stand for?”</p>
			<p>“Damn you for a hass!” snarled Jim Bullock between his teeth, giving the galoot a vicious dig in the side with his elbow.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
