<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-AU">
	<head>
		<title>He’d Come Back</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="hed-come-back" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">He’d Come Back</h2>
			<p>The yarn was all lies, I suppose; but it wasn’t bad. A city bushman told it, of course, and he told it in the travellers’ hut.</p>
			<p>“As true’s God hears me I never meant to desert her in cold blood,” he said. “We’d only been married about two years, and we’d got along grand together; but times was hard, and I had to jump at the first chance of a job, and leave her with her people, an’ go upcountry.”</p>
			<p>He paused and fumbled with his pipe until all ears were brought to bear on him.</p>
			<p>“She was a beauty, and no mistake; she was far too good for me⁠—I often wondered how she came to have a chap like me.”</p>
			<p>He paused again, and the others thought over it⁠—and wondered too, perhaps.</p>
			<p>The joker opened his lips to speak, but altered his mind about it.</p>
			<p>“Well, I travelled up into <span epub:type="z3998:place">Queensland</span>, and worked back into <span epub:type="z3998:place">Victoria</span> ’n’ <span epub:type="z3998:place">South Australia</span>, an’ I wrote home pretty reg’lar and sent what money I could. Last I got down on to the southwestern coast of <span epub:type="z3998:place">South Australia</span>⁠—an’ there I got mixed up with another woman⁠—you know what that means, boys?”</p>
			<p>Sympathetic silence.</p>
			<p>“Well, this went on for two years, and then the other woman drove me to drink. You know what a woman can do when the devil’s in her?”</p>
			<p>Sound between a sigh and a groan from Lally Thompson. “My oath,” he said, sadly.</p>
			<p>“You should have made it <em>three</em> years, Jack,” interposed the joker; “you said two years before.” But he was suppressed.</p>
			<p>“Well, I got free of them both, at last⁠—drink and the woman, I mean; but it took another⁠—it took a couple of years to pull myself straight⁠—”</p>
			<p>Here the joker opened his mouth again, but was warmly requested to shut it.</p>
			<p>“Then, chaps, I got thinking. My conscience began to hurt me, and⁠—and hurt worse every day. It nearly drove me to drink again. Ah, boys, a man⁠—if he is a man⁠—can’t expect to wrong a woman and escape scot-free in the end.” (Sigh from Lally Thompson.) “It’s the one thing that always comes home to a man, sooner or later⁠—you know what that means, boys.”</p>
			<p>Lally Thompson: “My oath!”</p>
			<p>The joker: “Dry up yer crimson oath! What do you know about women?”</p>
			<p>Cries of “Order!”</p>
			<p>“Well,” continued the storyteller, “I got thinking. I heard that my wife had broken her heart when I left her, and that made matters worse. I began to feel very bad about it. I felt mean. I felt disgusted with myself. I pictured my poor, ill-treated, little wife and children in misery and poverty, and my conscience wouldn’t let me rest night or day”⁠—(Lally Thompson seemed greatly moved)⁠—“so at last I made up my mind to be a man, and make⁠—what’s the word?”</p>
			<p>“Reparation,” suggested the joker.</p>
			<p>“Yes, so I slaved like a nigger for a year or so, got a few pounds together and went to find my wife. I found out that she was living in a cottage in <span epub:type="z3998:place">Burwood, Sydney</span>, and struggling through the winter on what she’d saved from the money her father left her.</p>
			<p>“I got a shave and dressed up quiet and decent. I was older-looking and more subdued like, and I’d got pretty grey in those few years that I’d been making a fool of myself; and, some how, I felt rather glad about it, because I reckoned she’d notice it first thing⁠—she was always quick at noticing things⁠—and forgive me all the quicker. Well, I waylaid the school kids that evening, and found out mine⁠—a little boy and a girl⁠—and fine youngsters they were. The girl took after her mother, and the youngster was the dead spit o’ me. I gave ’em half a crows each and told them to tell their mother that someone would come when the sun went down.”</p>
			<p>Bogan Bill nodded approvingly.</p>
			<p>“So at sundown I went and knocked at the door. It opened and there stood my little wife looking prettier than ever⁠—only careworn.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Long, impressive pause.</p>
			<p>“Well, Jack, what did she do?” asked Bogan.</p>
			<p>“She didn’t do nothing.”</p>
			<p>“Well, Jack, and what did she say?”</p>
			<p>Jack sighed and straightened himself up: “She said⁠—she said⁠—‘Well, so you’ve come back.’ ”</p>
			<p>Painful silence.</p>
			<p>“Well, Jack, and what did you say?”</p>
			<p>“I said yes.”</p>
			<p>“Well, and so you had!” said Tom Moonlight.</p>
			<p>“It wasn’t that, Tom,” said Jack sadly and wearily⁠—“<em>It was the way she said it!</em>”</p>
			<p>Lally Thompson rubbed his eyes: “And what did you do, Jack?” he asked gently.</p>
			<p>“I stayed for a year, and then I deserted her again⁠—but meant it that time.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, well! It’s time to turn in.”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
