<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-AU">
	<head>
		<title>His Colonial Oath</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="his-colonial-oath" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">His Colonial Oath</h2>
			<p>I lately met an old schoolmate of mine upcountry. He was much changed. He was tall and lank, and had the most hideous bristly red beard I ever saw. He was working on his father’s farm. He shook hands, looked anywhere but in my face⁠—and said nothing. Presently I remarked at a venture:</p>
			<p>“So poor old <abbr>Mr.</abbr> B., the schoolmaster, is dead.”</p>
			<p>“My oath!” he replied.</p>
			<p>“He was a good old sort.”</p>
			<p>“My oath!”</p>
			<p>“Time goes by pretty quick, doesn’t it?”</p>
			<p>His oath (colonial).</p>
			<p>“Poor old <abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr class="name">B.</abbr> died awfully sudden, didn’t he?”</p>
			<p>He looked up the hill, and said: “My oath!”</p>
			<p>Then he added: “My blooming oath!”</p>
			<p>I thought, perhaps, my city rig or manner embarrassed him, so I stuck my hands in my pockets, spat, and said, to set him at his ease: “It’s blanky hot today. I don’t know how you blanky blanks stand such blank weather! It’s blanky well hot enough to roast a crimson carnal bullock; ain’t it?” Then I took out a cake of tobacco, bit off a quarter, and pretended to chew. He replied:</p>
			<p>I thought, perhaps, my city rig or manner embarrassed him, so I stuck my hands in my pockets, spat, and said, to set him at his ease: “It’s blanky hot today. I don’t know how you blanky blanks stand such blank weather! It’s blanky well hot enough to roast a crimson carnal bullock; ain’t it?” Then I took out a cake of tobacco, bit off a quarter, and pretended to chew. He replied:</p>
			<p>“My oath!”</p>
			<p>The conversation flagged here. But presently, to my great surprise, he came to the rescue with:</p>
			<p>“He finished me, yer know.”</p>
			<p>“Finished? How? Who?”</p>
			<p>He looked down towards the river, thought (if he did think) and said: “Finished me edyercation, yer know.”</p>
			<p>“Oh! you mean <abbr>Mr.</abbr> B.?”</p>
			<p>“My oath⁠—he finished me first-rate.”</p>
			<p>“He turned out a good many scholars, didn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“My oath! I’m thinkin’ about going down to the trainin’ school.”</p>
			<p>“You ought to⁠—I would if I were you.”</p>
			<p>“My oath!”</p>
			<p>“Those were good old times,” I hazarded, “you remember the old bark school?”</p>
			<p>He looked away across the sidling, and was evidently getting uneasy. He shifted about, and said:</p>
			<p>“Well, I must be goin’.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose you’re pretty busy now?”</p>
			<p>“My oath! So long.”</p>
			<p>“Well, goodbye. We must have a yarn some day.”</p>
			<p>“My oath!”</p>
			<p>He got away as quickly as he could.</p>
			<p>I wonder whether he <em>was</em> changed after all⁠—or, was it I? A man does seem to get out of touch with the bush after living in cities for eight or ten years.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
