<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-AU">
	<head>
		<title>On the Edge of a Plain</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="on-the-edge-of-a-plain" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On the Edge of a Plain</h2>
			<p>“I’d been away from home for eight years,” said Mitchell to his mate, as they dropped their swags in the mulga shade and sat down. “I hadn’t written a letter⁠—kept putting it off, and a blundering fool of a fellow that got down the day before me told the old folks that he’d heard I was dead.”</p>
			<p>Here he took a pull at his water-bag.</p>
			<p>“When I got home they were all in mourning for me. It was night, and the girl that opened the door screamed and fainted away like a shot.”</p>
			<p>He lit his pipe.</p>
			<p>“Mother was upstairs howling and moaning in a chair, with all the girls boo-hooing round her for company. The old man was sitting in the back kitchen crying to himself.”</p>
			<p>He put his hat down on the ground, dinted in the crown, and poured some water into the hollow for his cattle-pup.</p>
			<p>“The girls came rushing down. Mother was so pumped out that she couldn’t get up. They thought at first I was a ghost, and then they all tried to get holt of me at once⁠—nearly smothered me. Look at that pup! You want to carry a tank of water on a dry stretch when you’ve got a pup that drinks as much as two men.”</p>
			<p>He poured a drop more water into the top of his hat.</p>
			<p>“Well, mother screamed and nearly fainted when she saw me. Such a picnic you never saw. They kept it up all night. I thought the old cove was gone off his chump. The old woman wouldn’t let go my hand for three mortal hours. Have you got the knife?”</p>
			<p>He cut up some more tobacco.</p>
			<p>“All next day the house was full of neighbours, and the first to come was an old sweetheart of mine; I never thought she cared for me till then. Mother and the girls made me swear never to go away any more; and they kept watching me, and hardly let me go outside for fear I’d”⁠—</p>
			<p>“Get drunk?”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—you’re smart⁠—for fear I’d clear. At last I swore on the Bible that I’d never leave home while the old folks were alive; and then mother seemed easier in her mind.”</p>
			<p>He rolled the pup over and examined his feet. “I expect I’ll have to carry him a bit⁠—his feet are sore. Well, he’s done pretty well this morning, and anyway he won’t drink so much when he’s carried.”</p>
			<p>“You broke your promise about leaving home,” said his mate.</p>
			<p>Mitchell stood up, stretched himself, and looked dolefully from his heavy swag to the wide, hot, shadeless cotton-bush plain ahead.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes,” he yawned, “I stopped at home for a week, and then they began to growl because I couldn’t get any work to do.”</p>
			<p>The mate guffawed and Mitchell grinned. They shouldered the swags, with the pup on top of Mitchell’s, took up their billies and water-bags, turned their unshaven faces to the wide, hazy distance, and left the timber behind them.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
